And so we talked about patron. What about social networks? Well,
they're inherently like search a global algorithm.
You're trying to find friends of friends.
You're doing the transitive closure of a graph induced by this friend of
relation, but you should own your friend relation.
You should own your posts.
They shouldn't be owned by somebody else who can take them down or send to them.
And your friend relations,
you should be able to find those friends on other networks.
And that's why I've tweeted about this. I haven't built it yet.
What if the browser could keep track of those for you?
What if the browser could maybe combine Facebook and Twitter and you could find
your friends on both and you could have a sort of that.
The relationship is not owned by Facebook or Twitter. It's owned by, you know,
the process.
We'll have terms of use, and they'll say they own it,
but if they zap you on one and you're still on the other,
your friends find you and the browser could observe a combined view.
You could resurrect almost across network.
Because it's something I want to maybe quickly ask you about on that front.
There's been, uh, quite a lot of, um, centralized.
We talked about wall street bets, and then, uh,
Robin hood has been centralized banning of different accounts
and removing like parlor, for example,
from AWS and this kind of overreach of centralized control
is your hope that it's possible to like,
what are your thoughts about that in general? Is it,
and then is it possible to create tools that give individual people the
power to fight back against overreach.
Control? So we're talking about oligarchy. I do think,
and that if it controls a nation state, that's formidable,
it's the tax and the police power, the military power.
It means that you may have the great firewall of China.
You may have people in China who are jailed because of their tweets, right?
This is a serious threat. I can't minimize it or say that will win.
I don't know how it's going to go. But I do think,
like I said earlier about the cunning of reason, people find ways around things,
the internet routes around censorship,
and this is not to endorse any particular bad faction.
One of the things that happens when you try to wave the free speech flag too
much,
you say I'm not going to censor anything and you get colonized by terrible,
terrible people. I guess I don't care if you call the Neo Nazi,
some of them could be doing illegal things, right?
And you don't want them calling us because it'll ruin your reputation and
destroy your business.
So what you really want is that kind of user first subsidiarity that
subjectivity.
I want my social networks to be composited in some multi social
user interface where I don't lose track of people across networks.
And if they leave one or they get banned from one, I can find them on another.
I can still sort of thread them together. Yeah, that's brilliant.
And this didn't happen because browsers got captured by the central powers.
Why did they get captured?
Mostly because of search and search is a central algorithm. So, you know,
Larry Page said this too many years ago, he said with search,
you're giving up a little privacy by handing a query over to us and then we'll
air correct. It. Alan Eustace used to be at Google and Google executive.
He said, Oh yeah, we used to laugh. They'd be doing typos.
And they'd be typing the wrong word. We're like no dummy type that query.
And it's like, okay, Google might want to dial back that ego a little bit.
But yes,
you do see all the queries and you can improve them and you can find the best
results. And that was Google's forte. When we did the Firefox deal in 2004,
Google was really good. And over time, you know, SEO,
which is an adversarial game. Yeah. And Google itself,
buying all these companies and crowding its own results page with its own tied
in yet stuff that needs to slippers.
That happens when you, when, uh,
when you have control over these kinds of really important mechanisms. Yeah.
Anomaly capitalism or cartel, you get this with the Robin hoods and the,
the hedge funds you get, uh, sort of the money interest takeover,
and kind of abuse their power and wear out their welcome. So what,
how do you get around that?
You have to have either new land to go to which, you know,
some people's ancestors, not mine did to found the country, um, um,
mostly Irish, German. Um, you, you have a new virtual space. People go to,
and that requires, you know, an ISP to,
or colo center or Amazon to host you.
It requires domain name registrar who will not strike you.
And so you want parlor was taken down. You know,
I thought that was egregious parlor. I was not well designed. And I,
I tried it out cause I tried all these things. Um, but I didn't use it.
And I also felt they were being unfairly scored for not moderating because you
can find tweets to this day that are horrendous and threatened also with the
violence, whereas Twitter, why isn't Twitter being taken down,
but someone's very selective.
It was the insiders who have the power are going to take out the new lever.
And it looked bad, sort of like the,
the hedge funds sorting GameStop looked bad. You know,
you're seeing a piece in time magazine this week. That's like basically saying,
yeah, we interfere with the election, but it was great. Aren't we good?
I don't know if you've seen this piece yet.
If you tried to say that as a Trump supporter in, in November,
after the election, you get banned from Twitter.
But now time in its Twitter account is saying, you know, we saved the day. We,
we it's AFL CIO and big business.
The better business Bureau got together,
kept Trump from the spreading of fake news. So the country's kind of broken.
I don't know how to fix that. The oligarchs have run wild in my opinion.
And big tech is in the anti-trust doc. What's going to happen.
I don't think they get out.
I think some of the DOJ and certainly the state cases,
because there's a separate cases are not going to go away just because somebody
got elected differently.
And these are career prosecutors and they have a strong case. Um,
and Google smart and Microsoft almost got split up, right? Uh,
the judge Thomas Penfield, Jackson, he overreached,
he didn't hold a hearing about the remedy. He just said,
I'm going to break you up. And Microsoft appealed on the higher level.
Courts said, go back and figure this out. You're not breaking them up.
You didn't even hold a hearing. And when they got back, Microsoft said,
let's settle. Let's settle.
We want to get broken up because Jackson was going to make the ops code,
the operating system company and the app's co office w you know, word Excel.
And, uh, that would have been a huge blow to Microsoft. So.
But ultimately, I don't know.
I don't know if you're optimistic or cynical about the possibility of breaking
up big tech. And to me, uh,
I'm optimistic that tools like brave.
I love the idea of owning your friendships like as users,
more and more owning the stuff is the only real way. Unfortunately,
it's like the wall street bet suburb is the only real way to fight the
centralized power.
You can't break them up with the regulation is very difficult.
For the law. You know,
Netscape was long dead or acquired by AOL and effectively dead.
It was only Muslim that returned Firefox to the market. Uh,
by the time that the USB Microsoft case was finally settled in,
the penalties were put in place. And, uh,
and yet antitrust has a role to play.
Those penalties caused Microsoft to kind of turn away from the web.
They did windows Vista and they thought the web's too painful.
We got punished in court and we got,
we had to standardize things with those icky standards, people.
So they ran back to proprietary lock-in and windows Vista flopped. It was late,
it was bloated Longhorn river. Now what Google is most going to save it?
Google is smart enough. They won't get split up.
They'll split something out to get off the hook. I think.